EFM (Enterprise Failover Manager) is a high-availability failover tool used in EDB PostgreSQL (EnterpriseDB) environments. It's designed to monitor, manage, and automate failover between primary and standby nodes in a PostgreSQL cluster, ensuring minimal downtime and consistent data availability.


---

EFM Overview

EFM monitors PostgreSQL nodes (primary, standby, and witness).

It detects failures and can automatically promote a standby to primary.

Other nodes are updated with the new topology (like reconfiguring recovery.conf).

A witness node is optional but recommended to avoid split-brain situations.



---

Primary-Secondary Switchover Concept

Failover (Unplanned switch)

Occurs when the primary node fails unexpectedly.

EFM promotes a suitable standby to primary based on the health, lag, and quorum.

EFM updates other standbys to follow the new primary.


Switchover (Planned switch)

Manual and planned transition of roles between primary and standby.

Used for maintenance, patching, or load balancing.

Ensures minimal or zero data loss since it's pre-coordinated.



---

Sequence of Switchover (Manual Planned Switchover)

1. Identify the target standby you want to promote.


2. Ensure the target standby is fully synchronized (minimal replication lag).


3. Pause writes or inform applications to drain connections from the current primary.


4. Run EFM switchover command (on the current primary or via EFM control utility):

efm promote <cluster-name>


5. EFM promotes the standby and updates the cluster topology.


6. Restart/reconfigure the old primary to follow the new primary as a standby.




---

Deciding the Switchover Sequence

To decide the sequence or choose the target standby during failover or switchover, consider:

1. Replication Lag:

Prefer standbys with the least lag.



2. Health Status:

Use EFM’s internal monitoring or pg_stat_replication to check for streaming and replay status.



3. Node Priority:

EFM allows assigning promotion priority via efm.properties.

Lower numbers = higher priority (e.g., priority=1 is promoted before priority=2).



4. Network Latency:

Choose a node with better connectivity to applications or external systems.



5. Application Affinity:

Select standby nodes in the same region/datacenter as the apps when possible.



6. Witness Availability:

For automatic failover, ensure quorum (majority) is available.





---

Would you like a visual diagram showing the EFM cluster and switch-over flow?

