Here’s a PowerPoint outline with detailed slide content for your EDB BDR (Bi-Directional Replication) solution presentation. The slides are structured to cover:

1. What is BDR


2. Architecture


3. Pros and Cons


4. How it works with heavy data/transactions


5. Minimum CPU and RAM requirements


6. Compatibility with other logical replication setups


7. POC steps with 4TB data




---

✅ Slide 1: Title Slide

Title: EDB BDR Solution Overview

Subtitle: High Availability & Multi-Master PostgreSQL

Presented by: [Your Name]

Date



---

✅ Slide 2: What is EDB BDR?

BDR (Bi-Directional Replication) is an advanced multi-master replication solution by EDB.

Built on top of PostgreSQL with custom enhancements.

Enables active-active clusters where nodes can accept writes.

Ideal for high availability, distributed applications, and zero-downtime operations.



---

✅ Slide 3: BDR Architecture

Cluster Nodes: Multiple PostgreSQL nodes (up to 48 in BDR 3+)

Replication Method: Logical replication using EDB enhancements.

Conflict Handling: Built-in conflict detection and resolution strategies.

Topology Options:

Full mesh

Hierarchical (for geo-distributed)


Global Sequence Generator for consistent sequences.


Include diagram:

┌──────────┐     ┌──────────┐
│  Node 1  │◄──►│  Node 2  │
└──────────┘     └──────────┘
      ▲               ▲
      ▼               ▼
  ┌──────────┐     ┌──────────┐
  │  Node 3  │◄──►│  Node 4  │
  └──────────┘     └──────────┘


---

✅ Slide 4: BDR: Pros and Cons

Pros:

Active-Active replication (multi-master)

High availability and fault tolerance

Minimal downtime during upgrades

Supports distributed applications

Global DDL replication & conflict resolution


Cons:

Complexity in setup & monitoring

Higher resource utilization

DDL changes require coordination

Not ideal for write-heavy workloads without planning



---

✅ Slide 5: BDR with Huge Data & Heavy Transactions

Efficient with large datasets using logical decoding and asynchronous apply.

Best practice: Use table partitioning and replication sets to isolate critical tables.

Monitor apply lag using bdr.node_status.

Recommended to disable heavy autovacuum during peak sync times.

Use parallel apply workers to improve sync for high TPS workloads.



---

✅ Slide 6: Minimum CPU and RAM Requirements

For 1 TB or more data with moderate TPS:

CPU: Minimum 16 vCPU (multi-core for parallelism)

RAM: 64–128 GB depending on table size and connection count


For 4+ TB with heavy batch transactions:

CPU: 20–32 vCPU

RAM: 128–160 GB


Use work_mem, maintenance_work_mem, wal_buffers, and replication slots tuning for optimization.



---

✅ Slide 7: Can We Use Logical Replication Separately?

Yes, but with constraints:

You can configure additional logical replication from BDR nodes to other PostgreSQL databases.

Use replication sets to filter tables.

Avoid conflict by ensuring:

Target DB is read-only or isolated.

Changes to replicated tables don't occur on both sides.



How:

Create a publication on BDR node

Create a subscription on external DB


-- On BDR node
CREATE PUBLICATION app_pub FOR TABLE users, transactions;

-- On target logical replica
CREATE SUBSCRIPTION app_sub CONNECTION 'host=... user=... dbname=...' PUBLICATION app_pub;


---

✅ Slide 8: POC Plan with 4TB Data

Goal: Validate BDR performance and consistency with 4 TB dataset under load.

Steps:

1. Provision Environment

3 BDR nodes, each with 20 vCPU & 160 GB RAM

Shared storage for WAL and backups



2. Install EDB Postgres + BDR plugin


3. Create initial schema and load 4TB data

Use pg_basebackup or logical dump

Index and partition heavy tables



4. Initiate BDR cluster

bdr_init_copy or bdr_create_group



5. Run parallel writes & batch operations

Simulate production load



6. Validate replication lag and consistency

Check bdr.replication_queue, apply lag, and conflicts



7. Perform failover test

Promote another node and test application continuity



8. Test logical replication to external DB


9. Monitor using pg_stat_activity and EDB tools


10. Prepare Performance Report




---

✅ Slide 9: Conclusion & Recommendations

BDR is a robust solution for mission-critical, HA, and distributed PostgreSQL needs.

Plan carefully for schema design, replication lag, and resource sizing.

Logical replication to other DBs is possible but must be handled with care.

POC with 4TB validates readiness and performance benchmarks.



---

Would you like me to generate this as a downloadable .pptx PowerPoint presentation with visuals and diagrams?

